Open AI just did a massive study on how
people actually use chat GPT looking at
over a million conversations. And here's
the big takeaway. Almost one in four
chats are people actively seeking
information asking for advice on what's
best, how to decide, and yes, what to
buy. Instead of 10 search results on
Google, people now just get a couple of
clear answers with sources. If your
business isn't one of them, you don't
even show up. In this video, I'll break
down what the study found and give you
the three steps to make sure people see
your business when they ask ChatGpt.
OpenAI's latest study shows how people
really use Chat GPT. The biggest uses
are writing help, practical advice,
language translation, and one that's
exploding, information seeking. In just
a year, it grew from 14% to 24%. That's
a massive shift in how people find
answers, make decisions, and research
everything from work tasks to personal
purchases. Here's why this matters. When
people research products, both Chat GBT
and Google's new AI overviews and AI
mode now deliver instant direct
recommendations right at the top.
Instead of scrolling through 10 blue
links, users get a concise answer
summarizing the best options with
sources and reasoning included. If you
Google best email marketing platform,
you now see a AI generated overview that
lists recommended platforms and cites
authoritative sources. Ask Chad GPT the
same question and you get a focused
answer, often just two or three product
recommendations, plus context on why
they are the best for different needs.
This shift means your business needs to
show up in those top AI powered answers.
Whether someone is using Google or
ChatGpt, the companies that get featured
capture attention from millions of
product researchers while those left out
risk being invisible in this new search
ecosystem.
Let me show you exactly how Chat GBT
makes these recommendations so you can
understand what you're optimizing for.
My team and I ran dozens of tests on
product research queries to see which
sources Chad GPT cites most frequently.
The pattern is clear. Chad GPD has a
strong bias towards three types of
sources. First, industry publications
and authoritative websites. When I asked
Chad GBT about email marketing tools,
Chad GBT cited articles from Techraar,
Forbes, and Zapier. These aren't just
articles, they're comprehensive
comparisons with clear evaluation
criteria. Second, review aggregator
sites like G2, Capterra, and Trustpilot.
Chat GBT loves these because they
provide structured data about user
ratings, pricing, and features. The AI
can extract specific information like
4.5 out of five stars with over a
thousand reviews. Third, community
discussions from Reddit and Stack
Overflow where real users share
authentic experiences. But not just any
discussion. Chat GBT cites threads where
someone asks specific questions and gets
detailed, helpful responses with clear
reasoning. What ChatGBT doesn't site is
promotional content, then affiliate
articles or pages that are obviously
trying to sell something. The AI has
learned to distinguish between helpful
information and marketing fluff. This
creates a massive opportunity for
businesses willing to create genuinely
helpful authoritative content instead of
promotional material. These companies
winning in AI Surge aren't necessarily
the ones with the biggest marketing
budgets. They're the ones Chad GBT
considers the most trustworthy source of
information.
After analyzing tens and thousands of
Chad GBT recommendations, we've
identified three concrete steps any
business can implement to start showing
up in AI search results. Step one,
create research focused content. The
content that wins trust isn't
promotional, it's research driven.
Instead of talking about why your
software is the best, create a complete
guide to choosing a email marketing
software for e-commerce stores. Your
content needs to answer exact questions
people ask Chad GBT. Use Reddit, Quora,
and industry forums to find these
specific research queries. Look for
questions like best X for Y with Z
budget or X versus Y for Z use case.
Structure content like a research
report, not a blog post. Start with a
direct answer. For e-commerce stores
under a thousand customers, the top
three email marketing platforms are
Mailchimp, Clavio, and ConvertKit based
on pricing, automation features, and
Shopify integration. Then include a
comparison table with specific criteria,
pricing tiers, key features, best fit
scenarios, and limitations. Chat GBT
loves structured information that it can
extract and reformat. You also want to
explain your evaluation methodology. How
did you test these platforms? What
criteria did you use? This builds trust
with both AI and human readers. Include
evidence and sources. Link to user
reviews, case studies, and third party
evaluations. Chat GBT weighs sources
that site other credible sources more
heavily. Step two, build authority
across multiple platforms. Chat GBT
doesn't just look at your website. It
cross references multiple sources to
verify information. You need what I call
authority distribution. Getting your
expertise recognized across different
types of platforms. Get your content
published on industry websites. If
you're in marketing, pitch articles to
search engine land or HubSpot's blog. If
you're in e-commerce, target Shopify's
blog or Practical Commerce or even
AdWeek. Update your profiles on reviews
like sites G2 and Capterara or industry
specific directories. Make sure your
product information is complete,
current, and includes detailed feature
descriptions. The goal is to become the
source that multiple authoritative
platforms reference when discussing your
industry. When Chad GBT sees consistent
information about your business across
trusted sources, it's much more likely
to site you. Real quick before I get
into step three, if you want your
business recommended by ChatGpt, but
don't have the time to figure it out
exactly yourself, that's exactly what my
agency NP Digital does. We handle AI
search optimization for chat dbt
perplexity and Google's AI so you don't
have to just go to npdigital.com or
click the link in the description to
book a free call with my team. Now let's
dive into step three which is technical
implementation. This is where a lot of
businesses drop the ball. Not because
they don't care but because the tech
details can feel intimidating. Let's
break it down into plain English. First
don't accidentally block Chat GPT's
bots. Think of Chad GBT like Google. It
sends out bots, little crawlers that
scan the internet for information. If
those bots can't reach your site, it's
like having a store with lock doors.
Nobody can get it no matter how good
your products are. So, check your
robots.txt file. Make sure you aren't
blocking ChatgPT bot and O AI searchbot.
These are the two main ones ChatgPT
uses. Many businesses unknowingly block
these bots often because security tools
like Cloudflare system started doing it
automatically since July 2025. So your
site could be invisible to AI without
you even realizing it. Second, use
schema markup. Think labels for AI.
Imagine walking into a grocery store
where nothing has labels. You see
packages, but you have no idea what's
inside. That's what your website looks
like to AI without schema markup. You'll
want to add structured data called
schema markup to your site. Organization
schema tells AI who you are. Company
name, logo, contact info. Product schema
tells AI what you sell, features,
prices, reviews. Schema acts like a
translator. It makes sure AI doesn't
guess what your site is about. It knows
exactly. Third, create machine readable
fact files. AI loves clean, structured
info. Instead of forcing it to scan
through long pages of text, give it a
cheat sheet. Make a simple facts.json
file or structured data page with key
info, pricing, features, who it's for,
your target customers, comparisons, how
your product is different from others.
Think of it like a press kit for AI. If
someone asked Chad GBT, "What's the best
CRM for small businesses?" And you got a
fact file, your info is far more likely
to be pulled into the answer. Fourth,
keep content fresh. AI loves updates. AI
systems pay close attention to what's
new and what's updated. Just like Google
has always ranked fresher content
higher, and ChatGpt and other AI tools
are doing the same. If your site looks
stale, AI assumes it's out of date and
outdated answers don't get recommended.
That's why Wikipedia dominates so many
search results. It's not just because
it's comprehensive. It's because it's
consistently updated. The signal that
sends to AI is simple. This is a lie.
This is trustworthy. Here's how you can
do the same. Add last updated dates to
your key pages. Keep a change log page
showing product updates, new features,
or pricing changes. Regularly refresh
your top performing content so it stays
relevant. AI doesn't want to recommend
stale info. By keeping your content
fresh, you become the go-to source. The
data is clear. 700 million people are
using Chat GBT each and every single
week to research products and 24% of all
conversations are information seeking
behavior. If your business isn't showing
up in those recommendations, you're
invisible to the fastest growing
audience of product researchers. If you
want to learn more about optimizing for
AI search across all these platforms,
just watch this video next. I'll show
you the complete strategy that works
everywhere.